# bit-bundler
> Pluggable bundler that generates bundles for the browser.


### Install

```
$ npm install --save-dev bit-bundler
```


### Options and settings.

#### Bitbundler(options) : bitbundler

Constructor that creates an instance of `bit-bundler`.  Valid options are laid out below.

- **`options.loader`** { object } - Options to be passed on to the module loader instance.
  - **`plugins`** { Array[Plugin] | Plugin } - Plugins to be registerer with the module loader. These plugins are generally for procesing modules before they are bundled.
  - **`ignoreNotFound`** { boolean } (false) - Flag to ignore modules not found on disk. When set to true, these modules will just be empty entries in the bundle.
  - **`log`** { string } (error) - Log level. By default only errors are logged. Valid values are `info`, `warn`, `error`, and false.

- **`options.bundler`** { object } - Options to be passed on to the bundler instance.
  - **`plugins`** { Array[Plugin] | Plugin } - Plugins to be registered with the bundler.
  - **`printInfo`** { boolean } (false) - Flag to print out to console basic information about the modules in each generated bundle.
  - **`filePathAsId`** { boolean } (false) - Flag to tell the bundler that modules in the bundles should use the full path as ids instead of the numeric ids.
  - **`provider`** { { function: bundle } ) - Option for defining a custom bundler to process the modules generated by `bit-loader`. By default this is set to the built in [js bundler](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler-browserpack). But you can override this if you would like to provide a custom way of generating bundles.


#### bitbundler.bundle(files) : Promise

Method to bundle a list of files. Calling this method returns a promise that when resolved returns a context with all the bundle information.

- **`files`** { Array[string] | string } - Files to be bundled. These files are the root (entry) nodes in the module graph generated by `bit-loader`.

The context that is generated has the following information:

- **`bundle`** { {string: result} } - Object that has a string property called `result`, which is the actual bundle string to be written to disk.
- **`cache`** { object } - Map of all the modules loaded which are stored by `id`; the `ids` are the module `ids`.
- **`exclude`** { Array[string] } - Array of module `ids` to exclude from `bundle`. TODO: [Allow matching more than module ids](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler/issues/47)
- **`modules`** { Array[object] } - Array of root (entry) module meta objects. These module meta objects have an `id` that can be used as a key into `cache` to get the full module object. The items in this collection correspond to the `files` passed into the `bundle` method that initiates the bundling process.
- **`parts`** { object } - Map of bundle parts pulled out of the main `bundle` in the context. This map will have items created by plugins like [bundle splitter](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler-splitter) that can extract modules and generate separate bundles.

---

### Integrations

- [grunt](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/grunt-bit-bundler)
- gulp: TODO


### Examples

For more, please see [examples](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler/tree/master/examples)

#### Bundle JavaScript with node.js dependencies

By default, `bit-bundler` does not understand how to process module dependencies.  So we will rely on [bit-loader-js](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-loader-js) to help us out here.

``` javascript
var jsPlugin = require('bit-loader-js');
var Bitbundler = require('bit-bundler');

var bitbundler = new Bitbundler({
  loader: {
    plugins: jsPlugin()
  }
});

bitbundler
  .bundle('./src/main.js')
  .then(function(context) {
    console.log(context.bundle);
  });
```


### Why this project?

The rational behind this project is to provide a configurable and flexible bundling system that makes it really simple to *generate and split bundles*.


### Tech summary

`bit-bundler` uses [bit-loader](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-loader) as module loading system. With `bit-loader`'s configurable pipeline for loading and processing modules you can configure how modules are loaded, transformed, and how dependencies are processed. The output from `bit-loader` is then pushed on to the configured bundler provider, which by default is this [js bundler](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler-browserpack).

> bit-bundler uses [node-browser-resolve](https://github.com/defunctzombie/node-browser-resolve) to provide NPM module resolution out of the box.  However, bit-bundler does not support CJS (`require` statements) out of the box. But... For this, you can use [bit-loader-js](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-loader-js).


### Processing flow

The way that `bit-bundler` works is simple. The files to be bundled are handed off to `bit-loader`. `bit-loader` loads these files from disk, applies any transforms, and *recursively* loads and processes all module dependencies. The output of this is a module graph. The pipeline that does all this work can be configured via plugins, which are relatively simple to create; no streams! This is the step where we configure transforms, and anything else related to processing assets before they are bundled. The settings for this step are the `loader` options passed in to the `bit-bundler` constructor.

`bit-bundler` then creates a `context`, which has the module graph created by `bit-loader`. The `context` also has a `cache`, which is a flattened map of the module graph with the module `ids` as the keys.  This `context` is passed to the bundler `provider`, which by default is this [js bundler](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler-browserpack) but you can certainly create your own bundlers. What you get at the end is the `context` with the `bundle` as well other information that's generally of interest if you are looking to do any further processing on the generated `bundle`.

What you write to disk is generally `context.bundle.result`. You also write to disk `context.parts`, if you are using bundler plugins such as [bit-bundler-splitter](https://github.com/MiguelCastillo/bit-bundler-splitter) that can split up `context.bundle`.


### License

Licensed under MIT
